README.md, before:

# HealMAC

Human-friendly Message Authentication Codes for Healthcare Services!

## Description

Sometimes it's necessary to validate the authenticity of messages as part of a process that involves human interaction. In these cases it's error-prone and cumbersome to use long Message Authentication Codes generated by the more intense cryptographic hashes (512 bits?!).

That's why Modern eHealth's open source group has created an alternative that is human-friendly enough for people to read the authentication codes over the telephone if needed.

The HealMAC library can be used to both generate and validate codes, which generated using the modern [Murmur3 hash function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MurmurHash). For maximum readability it is recommended to encode the MAC using something like [Base36](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base36) so that only familiar English alphabet letters and digits are presented to the user.

## Documentation

API documentation can be found in the `docs/` directory within the project repo.

## Changelog

### 1.1.0

- After receiving feedback from initial users of this library, we've determined that the 128-bit Murmur3 hash function produces output that is too long when represented in Base36.

  The hash function has been updated to Murmur3's 32-bit variant. In order to ensure backwards compatibility for existing users, the API still outputs and receives 128-bit codes, however. Any code generated from the new version of the library will be padded to 16 bytes.

### 1.0.1

- Added API documentation to the repository.

### 1.0.0

- Initial release of HealMAC library with support for generating and validating Message Authentication Codes.

<br/>

###### Disclaimer

<small>This library is not suitable for production use and it is NOT recommended to integrate it with your project. If you are looking for a suitable HMAC implementation in Java please consider the [Guava project](https://guava.dev/).</small>

Commit message:

URGENT SECURITY FIX: Code is now 32-bit integer
The previous approach of using bytes for the integer was faulty.
Something about the padding??

README.md, after:

# HealMAC

Human-friendly Message Authentication Codes for Healthcare Services!

## Description

Sometimes it's necessary to validate the authenticity of messages as part of a process that involves human interaction. In these cases it's error-prone and cumbersome to use long Message Authentication Codes generated by the more intense cryptographic hashes (512 bits?!).

That's why Modern eHealth's open source group has created an alternative that is human-friendly enough for people to read the authentication codes over the telephone if needed.

The HealMAC library can be used to both generate and validate codes, which generated using the modern [Murmur3 hash function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MurmurHash). For maximum readability it is recommended to encode the MAC using something like [Base36](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base36) so that only familiar English alphabet letters and digits are presented to the user.

## Documentation

API documentation can be found in the `docs/` directory within the project repo.

## Changelog

### 2.0.0

- This is an urgent security fix for users of HealMAC version 1.1.0!
- With the new 32-bit codes it's necessary for the API to return an integer rather than the padded byte array. This is a backwards-incompatible change, but it's recommended for everyone to upgrade as soon as possible to avoid possible security issues.
- Our thanks for the bug report go to a security researcher who we are choosing to keep anonymous.

### 1.1.0

- After receiving feedback from initial users of this library, we've determined that the 128-bit Murmur3 hash function produces output that is too long when represented in Base36.

  The hash function has been updated to Murmur3's 32-bit variant. In order to ensure backwards compatibility for existing users, the API still outputs and receives 128-bit codes, however. Any code generated from the new version of the library will be padded to 16 bytes.

### 1.0.1

- Added API documentation to the repository.

### 1.0.0

- Initial release of HealMAC library with support for generating and validating Message Authentication Codes.

<br/>

###### Disclaimer

<small>This library is not suitable for production use and it is NOT recommended to integrate it with your project. If you are looking for a suitable HMAC implementation in Java please consider the [Guava project](https://guava.dev/).</small>
